---
layout: post
title:  "Hello Tin"
date:   2017-01-15 21:06:11 -0700
categories:
permalink: /post/:year/:month/:day/:slug
---
Tin is a simple framework written in Swift for media arts programming suitable for learning how to code. I made it to use in my Programming for Media Arts class. I have used Processing to teach programming in this class. I love and hate Processing. It has quite a few wonderful properties. However, after spending some time with Swift 3, I decided that I really would rather use it as the foundation for teaching, rather than Java. The problem is, the complexity of the vast apis used for Mac or iOS development are a huge barrier for beginners trying to do anything that is interesting. Processing provides a rich, yet approachable library that makes Java dramatically easier to tackle. Hopefully, Tin can provide a rich, yet approachable library for Swift.

A few of the priorities that influence Tin.

- Use Swift Programming language.
- Be Swift native, and Swifty in spirit - as long as that is simple.
- Simple, easy to learn.
- Two frameworks/libraries that I'm inspired by in their directness and simplicity: from long ago, IrisGL; from recent teaching experience, Processing.
- Simplicity and clarity is more important than immediate optimization.
- Work in a way that will allow other (more complex, and specialized) libraries to be used, whether in a user project, or in future framework extensions.
	

The current (limited) drawing API reflects these priorities. Rendering is done using CoreGraphics apis. A user can easily get a context and do any addition CG drawing. The framework implementation is intended to allow for the possibilty of multiple Rendering implementations. I hope to (soon) create an alternative that directly uses Metal apis.
